so we here at IBF has gone 2019 where
the sci-fi fair and we've got an amazing
project called textile we've got Andrea
and we've got Karen over here so can you
introduce yourselves and tell us a
little bit more about what you're
working on so today we brought two
demonstrations
about two demos to play with one is
called textile photos so it's a
decentralized photo sharing application
it's your photo sharing and storage so
you can do long-term storage of photos
we have this shared group that people
are coming up with their motor mobile
app taking photos they're getting most
of them this is basically like very you
know called least after him in the web
which is a field of multimedia
you haven't it's very loose identities
that people can have and they can just
be playful in there the other one is the
care game so we built it literally a
game of tag so one person is it
everybody else is just trying to stay
away from the person that's it is
cryptographically they're capable of
handy not over to other people everybody
knows that they can trust it so it's
using my PFS and the p2p and and peer
identity verification it have rose in a
game and it plays over a decentralized
network which is really cool says it
mister people downloading that app and
then there's one person right so it's in
the house let's here
so in the app will show you really big
it's like a really low fire this is how
I did my key to the game but what hers
is going to look like is it'll be all
red and if somebody and she shows that
to somebody
in there afters right it's really love
fine that's because what you're doing is
like really disseminating information to
a bunch of peers that have joined a
group that have broke that have joined a
game that I'm part of a private group in
one way and you know this in a
decentralized fashion right and that's
like some algorithm that is rotating
across those across those peers as well
that's selective yeah do you know that
so we use this actually to teach a
workshop earlier which is showing how
you could have shared databases you
could have these identities systems
verification and validation that people
are played by those rules and all that
they can do a simple game of check its
if you doing this it's just simple use
case it's fun but it's like a bunch of
components building blocks working
together to build the logic behind
there's a set of rules
so tell us a little bit more about how
the pictures here and the photos are
being stored in ipfs and how the speed
is updating in real-time we have a
centralized database both threads it's
in the decentralized world a database
always a bit different than a database
but you can think of it that way and so
everybody that's part of this group is
joining that shared database and people
post to it
that's disseminated over-fit appear to
be PW plus we have sort of these gateway
servers that do routing for these
messages and so you'll see it's an
eventually consistent database right so
P buddy post and then
uploaded via palace
how did that arrive here are using pops
up by using ie disseminating that
information in real time how's that
update arriving at a different though
yeah so in this case I actually it's my
account and I've got my account logged
in on the phone here and I've used that
same account to login on my desktop
right here and so these two accounts are
synced and they're actually directly
dialing each other over lid p2p and this
my phone is telling my desktop hey
there's a bunch of updates I think you
should grab them or their content
addresses the desktop is going thank you
very much I'll go grab those is directed
directly to this other node running here
over and over and the p2p connection
exactly yes in this case over
yeah although I am plugged in but that's
just mature yeah so we just spoke a few
minutes ago with the BNE guys so I'm
loving to see like these kind of like
cross collaboration opportunities
emerging because this could be you just
said and this happened over Wi-Fi which
means that you know you're depending on
some kind of connectivity but we really
just three meters away from each other
so how can we make together
this happened over an offline first
transport which is you know one of the
features that let me to be
and we need to work on because it's
still not there especially the seamless
switching so what are you plans do
part of that way that their minds
actually treating the data structures
right and so the first things with a
decentralized data store database a lot
of times as all ears are trying to
maintain that database so we're coming
up with different protocols in our
database so that here's to the
lightweight capabilities to listen to
that opens up opens up the opportunity
to blue to hand off spot pasture so you
could do things like here I'm gonna send
you one block and then you're gonna have
it don't worry about always having to
try to maintain them make the holes -
are you doing like some kind of signal
the user actually wants to vote a
sentence right away there is interest in
exactly the next version of our friends
is coming out where we repoed a lot of
that stuff what does it do
planning and community feedback stage
right now for threads of person to so
we're actually talking to a lot of how
can people participate in that in that
feedback versus probably easiest way is
to reach out on our github github.com
slash textile i/o we've got a bunch of
open tickets
use cases
the exact team is pretty accessible as
I think we have three tickets open
related to version two that are scoping
out different pieces that people are
giving feedback about the types of
threats that they want to see he also
have a slack channel a public slack
channel that people are always on
talking so that's just a slack textile
Dahiya
and then we have an upcoming community
following up a date yet but we'll be
announcing on Twitter on slack I want to
get this kind of feedback exactly before
we finally so while we were chatting
there's a new picture that just appear
over there in the feed that was bad over
there nice so that's cool so that came
from Ben's phone through the same system
where his phone his desktop was able to
pick it up balls just easy
it's awesome yeah yeah so is there
something else that you want to say to
people about textile how can they get on
board it health care how can they start
using the the textile SDK yeah so you
start building applications on top of it
what's the easiest way yeah that's the
big thing to point out is that we've
really tried to make it one one set of
solution so we have opinions about how
absolutely those so for that abstraction
layer that makes it really easy to put
I've given set at this IP FS in tickets
to rafts yeah and we do that
cross-platform so we just means that
users of textile don't actually need to
worry too much about ipfs itself and the
lower like the lower api's of ipfs
because your abstract that away giving
an opinionated way to build
collaborative applications yeah well we
feel is that you know most applications
the ability to databases that have feeds
synced data they need the ways to do
encryption and have different levels of
security permission and all those things
so we just make that easy is out of the
box and then we have this cross-platform
solution so it's
so it's like native and Android native
iOS and we have react native and we have
a JavaScript client and we're working on
native web so yeah yeah so we're working
that part of that and then there's a
bunch of really cool things coming up
that we just would love more feedback
well one of the pain points that we're
seeing for a lot of developers is that
they want to speak to a community that's
not quite there with us from Miss Mars
private keys go and having you know full
wallets and what our mission is is to
get more people to own their data and it
doesn't mean that they necessarily have
to buy the full wallet solution and so
we're working on how to do curatorial
wallets
so having solutions out there that can
actually hang onto a wallet for your
users and just give them a normal sign
into the system
totally exactly yeah anybody came to
meet you
that's it to make it easier and reduce
friction yeah yeah and what's really
cool is since our focus is getting that
data onto a decentralized network using
ipfs making it so that you can use api
since the barriers to your use it as
ever owning their data again your users
can actually just have that data they
can export it it's not really with us
it's just the key so
they always have like that selfie detail
that the attack rate which is for you
deeply we
in the state of affairs of the world and
then my next big piece of we're really
working on is how to handle
interoperability because the biggest
thing here is what you want to have your
data for so that you can get value from
it like you can create new things with
it and so if I'm going to harvest all of
my photos and store them
to be able to put them into new
applications and so we're really trying
to map out what say yes your new
developers can come on and use textile
and already have access to photos if I
give them as long as the user
into the space of expertise would have
led to technologies who want to start
exploring this should reach out on our
slack channel twitter should get in
touch because we're really interested
just more use cases of facilitating